Welcome back in in the previous lesson we built out our items dynamically and then we also added event
listeners So now that they're all clickable and they're all firing off to the Add to Cart function.
I also did a quick update and I changed the font size and I changed the display properties within the
CSSA to make them look a little bit more like buttons and so that they weren't overlapping a lot of
the text there that we have within the details.
So now we're ready to add it into the cart.
So first of that we need to do is we need to actually have an array where we can hold a shopping cart
information.
So let's set that up.
And this is just a blank array a global array so that we can add items into our cart.
So next let's go over to here and let's set up some variables.
So first of all we've got.
Item in full and all of this item info is contained within here where we saw that in the last lesson
that we logged it out into the console and we can pick up whatever whatever element triggered the event.
And we use that event target in order to grab that element and then we're grabbing the dataset object
because we want to make use of that whenever it gets clicked.
We want to pick up that information and make use of it.
So now let's set up some other items in here so we've got our item in full and let's add in a value
for quantity.
So this way if we want to set our quantity and we want to have something increasing in quantity we could
do that very easily sign up to set the quantity to 2 1 and we need to add this item into our shopping
cart.
So let's do that by shop carts and let's push this item into the array.
So basically it's adding it in to the shopping cart and previously we saw how we can store items for
the local storage.
Well we've also got session storage and that's the one that I wanted to use where I want to store the
value into the session storage and this is going to work the same way as the local storage where we
can add content into our session values.
So let's add that into session storage
and to do that we specify session storage.
So it's basically it contains.
It stores this value into the session the current session and we can use set item in order to set that
value.
And then we can give it a name.
So whatever name that we want to give it.
So let's call it s cart for our shopping cart and then next we need to pass in a value.
So we know that we have all of our values as an object tree so we can use what we use.
What we saw last time where we can do the Giese on string of fly in order to turn this into a string
value.
So in order to turn that whole array into a string value and then we can we know we saw earlier as well
that we can parse that.
And then we can make use of it.
So that's it.
So we need to just output it within the session storage.
And next we need to actually output our current values.
So we need to have something maybe down here at the bottom where we've got all of the contents of our
cart.
So let's set that up and we're going to call that function out cart.
So basically every time we call that it's going to loop through all of the information within the session
storage and output the card details.
So now that we've updated it whenever the item has been added into the card the next thing is that we
need to output that value into a string format or a jigsaw format so that we can loop through it and
display it within our Web page.
So that's the next challenge that we need to take a look at.
So just as we saw with local storage if we want to pull back this Sasson session storage we use get.
So let's do that.
And we'll just call it data for now.
And we're going to do instead of session storage.
Set item to get item and then what console log out that data it will take a closer look at it and then
we know that at that point we can we should be able to loop through those values so let's refresh the
page add in some content into our shopping cart.
And I know you can't tell that I'm clicking those buttons but we do see that it's actually outputting
every time it's putting that card information.
So we've got it as a string value within that session and it's all ready to go to get parsed back into
a usable object format.
And then we looping through it.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and build the HVM owl to display the information contained
within that session.
Session storage.
So all of the information that's contained within Estcourt I want you to pull that back and parse it
back into a usable format and then so that we have something that we can loop through and we can make
use of within our within our javascript and then what I want to do as well is build it out as a table
format all of the shopping cart contents so we can actually see when items get added the shopping cart
will update.
So pause the video and try that.
In our show.
The solution coming up so you at an opportunity to try that out.
And we know that what we saw earlier with the session storage where we can set an item we can retrieve
that information with get item.
So we have the ability to set and to retrieve it.
And there's another thing too that we need to keep in mind because we already have a running total for
a shopping cart so we don't necessarily although we're storing up to session storage we want this value
to also work whenever the user reloads the page.
They don't actually lose all of their values that are contained within this one session.
So the session is slightly different than the local storage because the session is only for this one
instance for this one session.
So that's the real difference.
But if I do refresh the page all of my items will still be in the cart.
So we know that the next thing that we need to do is we need to output.
And we need to parse this information that we have here.
So we need to take that value and we need to parse that out and we saw that Jason parse.
So wrapping the string value into Jaison parse should actually give us the ability to output that content's
going to just clear that.
And now whenever we refresh we've got all of our shopping cart information just hours before.
So I see that as we're adding it in.
I've got all of those items.
And this is something as well that we're going to have to look at later on because we've got multiples
of these items that are adding in and we want to actually detect if it's the same ID and if it is then
we want to increment the quantity instead of updating it.
So that's one of the things that we do need to take care of.
But for now we know that were successfully able to audit into the session of surge and then pull that
back end and make use of it within our Javascript.
So the next step is to loop through that information that's contained within that value.
So we saw that.
Another thing that we do know as well is that we know that the value from session storage This is actually
going to match up with what we've got in our shopping cart.
So session storage is simply storing it in there kind of as a backup and we could just use the shopping
cart.
So that's one of the things that we do need to be aware of that restoring intersession storage and we
don't actually need to pick it up from the storage.
So maybe we can do a quick check to see what's in the storage and then we can just use the shopping
cart or we can override the shopping cart.
So a number of options here.
At this point.
So instead of doing data I can simply output the shopping cart value and the other thing too is I want
to always check to make sure that I do have a value in there that this value is not equal to no so this
isn't a blank value.
And if it's not a blank value at that point that's when we need to output it to the shopping carts we
need to overwrite the shopping cart value.
And otherwise if there's no session storage we're just going to loop through the shopping cart because
we already have a shopping cart set up as a global variable so we can make use of that as well.
So let's set up our HVM mail file and this file is going to be the basic starting point for our table.
So we know that we need to set up some table H-2 mail so we can set that up in there.
The next thing that we want to do is we want to add all of those values together so we actually have
a total of how much how much value there is within the shopping cart.
So start at zero.
And next let's loop through our shopping cart.
So just as we did earlier we've got a number of options that we've seen how he can loop through our
arrays so we can do that for each.
Or we can do the just the for loop that we saw earlier.
So again it's up to you whatever you're more comfortable with for each is probably an easier way to
do that because we don't need to have those variables.
And the next thing that we need to do is we need to just we need to pick up the value of the total and
then we also need to update each team Mel with the new content.
So we need to add in a row and a table cell and then close off the table so we're going to need a number
of these some just setting up the format there just to make sure that everything is working properly.
And then this one here is going to be the subtotal.
And so this is going to be the value of the quantity and we're going to multiply it by value of the
price.
So this is going to pick up a subtotal value for us that we can actually also insert that there
and then also let's let's update total.
And we're going to add whatever the sum total value is to that as well.
So we're going to use subtotal twice there so once within the output and then next within there.
So also let's let's duplicate this out and let's do one for the name so that we get the name of the
item there.
So it would take care of the other part afterwards.
So last thing let's output and let's update our HVM else we can actually see what's being contained
within here.
So for this one let's just close off the table for now and we'll add in the totals afterwards.
And then lastly let's update our documents a document get element by ID.
And let's place this with an output inner HTL.
And we're just equal that to each tim.
So there we go.
So let's try that.
So let's refresh it.
And now when we scroll up to the top guy I didn't put a shopping cart I put shop instead of shop carts
so let's do a quick update quick fix for that and refreshed it again so save.
And one thing I do need to do is I can't output it within the output area because that's actually where
we built our shopping items.
So I need another div in order for our cart shopping cart.
So let me let me just call this output put.
So that's our shopping cart area so let me update this
and let's go back to refresh it.
So there we go so we've got our shopping cart.
We're able to add in items into our shopping cart and we're getting the the name and the subtotal.
So the next lesson what I want you to do now and between the next lesson is to update the session storage
back to the local storage because as we saw the session storage works the same but there is a difference
in the session storage basically allows you to have access to data that's only available while the page
session is open and then when the page session ends then basically that data gets erased whereas the
local storage has no expiration so that's going to work a lot better.
So if you can update that to local storage have that output here and in the next lesson we're going
to work on the shopping cart.
I would put and make this look a lot better.
So it's coming up in the next lesson.